1:Don Quixote is a middle-aged gentleman from the region of La Mancha in central Spain. Obsessed with the chivalrous ideals touted in books he has read, he decides to take up his lance and sword to defend the helpless and destroy the wicked.
2:A Tale of Two Cities takes before and during the French Revolution. Jarvis Lorry is traveling to Paris to reunite Dr. Manette with his long-lost daughter Lucie. Dr. Manette has been living in hiding in Paris, awaiting his rescuers who will return him to England.
3:The Lord of the Rings is an entity named Sauron, the Dark Lord, who long ago lost the One Ring that contains much of his power. His overriding desire is to reclaim the Ring and use it to enslave all of Middle-earth. The story of The Lord of the Rings begins with several events that take place in The Hobbit.
4:The narrator introduces himself as a man who learned when he was a child that adults lack imagination and understanding. He is now a pilot who has crash-landed in a desert. He encounters a small boy who asks him for a drawing of a sheep, and the narrator obliges.
5:Harry Potter thinks he is an ordinary boy celebrating his 11th birthday, but he is far from right. A giant named Hagrid appears, and gives Harry the all important news. He is a wizard. ... But not everything is quiet at Hogwarts as Harry suspects someone is planning to steal the sorcerer's stone.
6:The Hobbit is set within Tolkien's fictional universe and follows the quest of home-loving hobbit Bilbo Baggins to win a share of the treasure guarded by Smaug the dragon. Bilbo's journey takes him from light-hearted, rural surroundings into more sinister territory.
7:And Then There Were None tells the story of ten people who were lured onto Indian Island by a man named U. N. Owen. Once all ten people were in the house on the island, the story picks up when Anthony Marston is poisoned.
8:Dream of the Red Chamber provides a detailed, episodic record of the lives of two separate branches of the Jia clan, a wealthy and aristocratic family. The first is the Rongguo House, the second the Ningguo House.
9:Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy Pevensie are four siblings sent to live in the country with the eccentric Professor Kirke during World War II. The children explore the house on a rainy day and Lucy, the youngest, finds an enormous wardrobe. Lucy steps inside and finds herself in a strange, snowy wood.
10:The story is a first-person narrative that follows the journey of Horace Holly and his ward Leo Vincey to a lost kingdom in the African interior. There they encounter a primitive race of natives and a mysterious white queen named Ayesha who reigns as the all-powerful "She", or "She-who-must-be-obeyed".
11:Pinocchio is a puppet who wants to be a human boy. When he tells lies, his nose grows long. At least, that's what most people remember about him. Carlo Collodi sets his modern-day fairy tale in Tuscany, Italy, in an uncertain era and starring an unexpected protagonist: ''Once upon a time there was a piece of wood.''
12:On 21st May, 1991, India's youngest ever prime minister and the then youth icon, Rajiv Gandhi got killed in a bomb blast at Sriperumbudur (Tamil Nadu), planned and executed by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) because he had sent forces in Sri Lanka to help the Sri Lankan army in suppressing the violent activities carried out by that organization. The killing was executed through a human-bomb and it sent a message across the world to all the militant groups that anybody can be killed if the killer is not hesitant of losing his / her own life for that purpose.
13:This novel starts off with a bang—literally. Jacques Saunière, the respected curator of the Louvre museum in Paris, is viciously shot by an albino monk looking for a certain mysterious something…something only Saunière and three other men (that have already been offed) could direct him to.
14:Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets begins when Harry is spending a miserable summer with his only remaining family, the Dursleys. During a dinner party hosted by his uncle and aunt, Harry is visited by Dobby, a house-elf.
15:Harry Potter, a young wizard, in his third year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Along with friends Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger, Harry investigates Sirius Black, an escaped prisoner from Azkaban who they believe is one of Lord Voldemort's old allies.
16:Harry, Ron and Hermione enter their fourth year at Hogwarts. After having a strange dream of the Dark Lord and his Death Eaters, Harry Potter awakes at the Weasleys' house where they shortly depart for the 422nd Quidditch World Cup. After the match, the camp is attacked by Death Eaters.
17:Number twelve is the home of Harry's godfather, Sirius Black, and the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix. The Order is a group of wizards, led by Hogwarts headmaster Albus Dumbledore, dedicated to fighting evil Lord Voldemort and his followers.
18:As Harry Potter begins his sixth year at Hogwarts, he discovers an old book marked as "the property of the Half-Blood Prince" and begins to learn more about Lord Voldemort's dark past.
19:As Harry, Ron and Hermione race against time and evil to destroy the Horcruxes, they uncover the existence of the three most powerful objects in the wizarding world: the Deathly Hallows. Voldemort's power is growing stronger. He now has control over the Ministry of Magic and Hogwarts.
20:The Alchemist follows the journey of an Andalusian shepherd boy named Santiago. Believing a recurring dream to be prophetic, he asks a Romani fortune teller in a nearby town about its meaning. The woman interprets the dream as a prophecy telling the boy that he will discover a treasure at the Egyptian pyramids.
21:Ulysses is the Latinised name of Odysseus, the hero of Homer's epic poem the Odyssey, and the novel establishes a series of parallels between the poem and the novel, with structural correspondences between the characters and experiences of Leopold Bloom and Odysseus, Molly Bloom and Penelope, and Stephen Dedalus.
22:The Great Gatsby is a story told by Nick Carraway, who was once Gatsby's neighbor, and he tells the story sometime after 1922, when the incidents that fill the book take place. As the story opens, Nick has just moved from the Midwest to West Egg, Long Island, seeking his fortune as a bond salesman.
23:Lolita, of the Confession of a White Widowed Male by Vladimir Nabokov is a story about Humbert Humbert, a literature professor in his late thirties, obsessed with a twelve-year-old Dolores Haze. The novel consists of a preface, two parts and the author's annotation.
24:The natural processes of birth, aging, and death represent horrors in this world. Bernard Marx, an Alpha-Plus (or high-caste) psychologist, emerges as the single discontented person in a world where material comfort and physical pleasure — provided by the drug soma and recreational sex — are the only concerns.
25:The Sound and the Fury is difficult. At a basic level, the novel is about the three Compson brothers' obsessions with the their sister Caddy, but this brief synopsis represents merely the surface of what the novel contains.
26:Darkness at Noon (German: Sonnenfinsternis) is a novel by Hungarian-born British novelist Arthur Koestler, first published in 1940. His best known work, it is the tale of Rubashov, an Old Bolshevik who is arrested, imprisoned, and tried for treason against the government that he had helped to create.
27:John Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath, Tom Joad and his family are forced from their farm in the Depression-era Oklahoma Dust Bowl and set out for California along with thousands of others in search of jobs, land, and hope for a brighter future.
28:Rosa Ramona Diaz, the ghost appeasing assistant librarian, has unleashed all the ghosts who were previously shut out of the small town of Ingot. Now ghosts are everywhere, and the town’s living residents are either learning to cope or trying to do the one thing no one can successfully do—banish the ghosts.
29:With the rise of the Berlin Wall, twelve-year-old Gerta finds her family divided overnight. She, her mother, and her brother Fritz live on the eastern side, controlled by the Soviets. Her father and middle brother, who had gone west in search of work, cannot return home.
30:When Frank and Joe set out to explore caves and tunnels, they dig themselves into some dark and dangerous trouble in this Hardy Boys adventure.
31:Under the Egg starts out with a horrific bang: 13-year-old Theodora Tenpenny sees that her beloved grandfather Jack has just been struck by a cab. She’s just in time to hear his dying words, “Look under the egg,” with instructions to also look for a letter and a treasure.
32:The principal story chronicles the power struggle for the Iron Throne among the great Houses of Westeros following the death of King Robert in A Game of Thrones. Robert's heir apparent, the 13-year-old Joffrey, is immediately proclaimed king through the machinations of his mother, Queen Cersei Lannister.
33:A Clash of Kings picks up the story where A Game of Thrones leaves off. The Seven Kingdoms are plagued by civil war, the Night's Watch mounts a reconnaissance force north of the Wall, and in the distant east, Daenerys Targaryen continues her quest to return to the Seven Kingdoms and claim her birthright.
34:A Storm of Swords continues the story where A Clash of Kings ended. The novel describes the increasingly vicious War of Five Kings in Westeros, Daenerys's strengthening forces in the East, and the oncoming threat of the Others, a ghostly army that is nearly invincible.
35:A Feast for Crows picks up the tale where A Storm of Swords leaves off and runs simultaneously with events in the following novel, A Dance with Dragons. The War of the Five Kings seems to be winding down. Robb Stark, Joffrey Baratheon, Renly Baratheon and Balon Greyjoy are dead.
36:The Dance of the Dragons" is the name given to a civil war in the prior history of Westeros, leading to much speculation that the novel would feature the long-awaited invasion of Westeros by the army of Daenerys Targaryen
37:The Winds of Winter is the planned sixth novel in the epic fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire by American writer George R. R. Martin. ... They will take readers farther north than any of the previous books, and the Others will appear in The Winds of Winter.
38:A Dream of Spring. A Dream of Spring is the planned title of the seventh volume of George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire series. The book is to follow The Winds of Winter and is intended to be the final volume of the series.